---
layout: post
title: Tools
date: 2012-09-30
---

I make it my hobby to make, edit, and run code on my computer. In this respect, my computer allows me to do what I like to do. It is my tool, and it’s a damn good one at that.

I also make it my hobby to play music. For this, my guitar is a fantastic tool that allows me to express myself in a lot of ways.

Having a certain aesthetic about myself is also a hobby of mine, and my clothes, and few possessions are tools that allow me to do this the way that I like.

Tools are facilitators to life. They allow people to do things that they couldn’t do otherwise (or at least things that would be very difficult to do otherwise). In my opinion, nobody should own anything that is not a tool in their life. A possession that does not facilitate your life or aid you in doing something you enjoy or being who you want to be is not a possession that is worth holding onto. It is a burden that weighs you down with every step, whether you realize it or not.

Freeing myself of these burdening possessions is something that I try to do often, and it has made my life much better. What I am left with are the things that I really care about, the things that make my life meaningfully better. Minimalism is not about seeing who can get rid of the most things, but about creating a better, more focused life by getting rid of the things that don’t benefit our lives in a meaningful way.

Tools are possessions that aid you in making your life what you want it to be. Anything that doesn’t do that is superfluous.